feat(stacks): updating gitops documentation (#1376)
influxdata/docs-v2: content/v2.0/influxdb-templates/stacks/_index.md

---
title: InfluxDB stacks
description: >

>   InfluxDB stacks are are artifacts that can be used to manage InfluxDB templates. Use stacks to add, update, or remove templated resources over time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  InfluxDB stacks are artifacts that can be used to manage InfluxDB templates. Use stacks to add, update, or remove templated resources over time.
```

  - /v2.0/reference/cli/influx/pkg/stack/
---

**InfluxDB stacks** are artifacts that can be used to manage [InfluxDB templates](/v2.0/influxdb-templates).

> When you apply a template, InfluxDB associates resources in the template with a stack. Use stacks to add, update, or remove templated resources over time.

Reviewer: instead of templated resources, we can just say InfluxDB Templates.

> When you apply a template, InfluxDB associates resources in the template with a stack. Use stacks to add, update, or remove templated resources over time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you apply a template, InfluxDB associates resources in the template with a stack. Use stacks to add, update, or remove InfluxDB templates over time.
```

{{% note %}}
**Key differences between stacks and templates**:

> - A template describes a set of resources in a text file outside of InfluxDB. When you apply a template, a stack is automatically created to manage the applied template resources.

Reviewer: defines sounds better, i agree.

> - A template describes a set of resources in a text file outside of InfluxDB. When you apply a template, a stack is automatically created to manage the applied template resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A template defines a set of resources in a text file outside of InfluxDB. When you apply a template, a stack is automatically created to manage the applied template resources.
```

- Stacks add, modify or delete resources in an instance.

> - Templates do not recognize resources already in an instance. All resources in the template are added, creating duplicate resources if a resource already exists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Templates do not recognize resources in an instance. All resources in the template are added, creating duplicate resources if a resource already exists.
```

### Automate deployments with GitOps and stacks

> GitOps is popular way to configure and automate deployments. Use InfluxDB stacks in a GitOps workflow

Author: After sentence that starts on line 39:

To automate deployments with GitOps and stacks, complete the following steps:
1. [Set up a GitHub repository to back your InfluxDB instance.](#set-up...)
2. [Populate your GitHub repository with the existing resources in your instance.](#populate...)
3. [Automate the creation of a stack for each folder.](#automate-the...)
4. [Automate deployment using Github Actions or CircleCI.](#automate-dep...)

to automatically update distributed instances of InfluxDB OSS or InfluxDB Cloud. For a complete example, check out the blog on [Building a GitOps Workflow with InfluxDB Templates]().

#### Set up a GitHub repository to back your InfluxDB instance

Start by determining how you want to organize the stacks (and my proxy, the resources) in your Github repository. 
Depending on how you use InfluxDB, you might want to organize resources under folders for specific teams or functions.

> Regardless of the heiarchy, we recommend that all resources that would be updated as part of the same stack live in the same folder. For example, if you are monitoring [Redis](), you might have a Telegraf configration, a few dashboards, a label, and some checks, all defined in the same folder in your repository, but in multiple files. They could all be connected by a stack named `redis`. When there is a change you want to make to one or more of those resources, it's easy to find them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Regardless of the hierarchy, we recommend that all resources that would be updated as part of the same stack live in the same folder. For example, if you are monitoring [Redis](), you might have a Telegraf configration, a few dashboards, a label, and some checks, all defined in the same folder in your repository, but in multiple files. They could all be connected by a stack named `redis`. When there is a change you want to make to one or more of those resources, it's easy to find them.
```

> Regardless of the heiarchy, we recommend that all resources that would be updated as part of the same stack live in the same folder. For example, if you are monitoring [Redis](), you might have a Telegraf configration, a few dashboards, a label, and some checks, all defined in the same folder in your repository, but in multiple files. They could all be connected by a stack named `redis`. When there is a change you want to make to one or more of those resources, it's easy to find them.

Reviewer: Grouping them together also localizes the changes needed to a single location in the repo, and the changes will most likely be done by a single person.

> Regardless of the heiarchy, we recommend that all resources that would be updated as part of the same stack live in the same folder. For example, if you are monitoring [Redis](), you might have a Telegraf configration, a few dashboards, a label, and some checks, all defined in the same folder in your repository, but in multiple files. They could all be connected by a stack named `redis`. When there is a change you want to make to one or more of those resources, it's easy to find them.

Author: Thanks, Russ clarified: ...it's easy to find and make changes in one location.

  {{% note %}}

>   Since stacks manage the entire lifecycle of a resource, including deletion, be extremely careful when using the same resource in multiple stacks, as deleting a stack could delete the resource another stack is depending on. This usually occurs when dealing with buckets. Since your buckets most likely contain data that might be used by many different templates, we would recommend keeping buckets separate from the other stacks. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Beacuse stacks manage the entire lifecycle of a resource, including deletion, be extremely careful when using the same resource in multiple stacks, as deleting a stack could delete the resource another stack is depending on. This usually occurs when dealing with buckets. Since your buckets most likely contain data that might be used by many different templates, we would recommend keeping buckets separate from the other stacks. 
```

>   Since stacks manage the entire lifecycle of a resource, including deletion, be extremely careful when using the same resource in multiple stacks, as deleting a stack could delete the resource another stack is depending on. This usually occurs when dealing with buckets. Since your buckets most likely contain data that might be used by many different templates, we would recommend keeping buckets separate from the other stacks. 

Reviewer: yeah i think we should advocate for users not to have the same resource in multiple stacks.

  {{% /note %}}

#### Automate the creation of a stack for each folder

Each folder in your Github repository will likely become its own stack, and you'll want to automate the process to apply your changes to your InfluxDB instance. You can do that using some shell scripts and the Influx CLI. Here is an example shell script that will create a `redis` stack, and automatically apply those changes to your instance.

```sh
echo "Checking for existing redis stack..."
REDIS_STACK_ID=$(influx stacks --stack-name redis --json | jq -r '.[0].ID')
if [ "$REDIS_STACK_ID" == "null" ]; then
    echo "No stack found. Initializing our stack..."
    REDIS_STACK_ID=$(influx stacks init -n redis --json | jq -r '.ID')
fi

# Setting the base path
BASE_PATH="$(pwd)"

echo "Applying our redis stack..."
cat $BASE_PATH/redis/*.yml | \
influx apply --force true --stack-id $REDIS_STACK_ID -q
```

  {{% note %}}

>   The `--json` flag in the InfluxDB CLI is very useful when scripting against the CLI, as it allows you to grab important information easily using [`jq`](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/manual/v1.6/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The `--json` flag in the InfluxDB CLI is very useful when scripting against the CLI. This flag lets you grab important information easily using [`jq`](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/manual/v1.6/).
```

  {{% /note %}}

> You can do this for each of the stacks you are maintaining. Each time you make a change to one of the resources in the stack, you can re-run this script and your changes will be applied to the resources in your InfluxDB instance. There's no need to check for changes before re-applying a stack, since re-applying the same resources doesn't change anything.

Author: Each time you update a resource in a stack, we recommend running your shell script to apply changes. 

For the last sentence, could we say "Reapplying a stack with an updated resource won't add, delete, or duplicate resources?" (Trying to clarify this part: "since re-applying the same resources doesn't change anything)

> You can do this for each of the stacks you are maintaining. Each time you make a change to one of the resources in the stack, you can re-run this script and your changes will be applied to the resources in your InfluxDB instance. There's no need to check for changes before re-applying a stack, since re-applying the same resources doesn't change anything.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can do this for each of the stacks you are maintaining. Each time you make a change to one of the resources in the stack, you can re-run this script and your changes will be applied to the resources in your InfluxDB instance. Re-applying a stack with an updated resource won't add, delete, or duplicate resources.
```

> For a complete example, check out the blog on [Building a GitOps Workflow with InfluxDB Templates]().

Author: ditto earlier comment

> #### Automating deployment using Github Actions or CircleCI

Author: Automate deployment...

> #### Automating deployment using Github Actions or CircleCI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Automate deployment using Github Actions or CircleCI
```

> Once you have a script to apply changes being made to your local instance, you can start to automate the deployment to other environments as needed. The InfluxDB CLI has the ability to maintain multiple [configuration profiles]() that makes it easy to issue commands against other InfluxDB instances. To apply the same script to a different InfluxDB instance, just change your active configuration profile using the `influx config set` command. You can also set the desired profile dynamically using the `-c, --active-config` flag.

Author: Did we discuss/identify the script you have to apply changes to your local instance earlier? If so, perhaps we can explicitly state as a step "Create a script to apply changes to your local instance"?

  {{% note %}}

>   Be careful anytime you are running automation scripts against shared environments. It might be useful to manually run the steps in your script first before setting up automation.

Author: Before you run...against shared environments, we recommend manually running the steps in your script.

  {{% /note %}}

> As long as your deployment automation software allows you to run a custom script, you can set it up to run the same script you've built locally, but against another environment. Here is an example of using a custom Github Action to do this:

Author: ...you can set a custom script? to run your local script against another environment.

```yml
name: deploy-influxdb-resources

on:
  push:
    branches: [ master ]

jobs:
  deploy:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
    - uses: actions/checkout@v2
      with:
        ref: ${{ github.ref }}
    - name: Deploys repo to cloud
      env:
        # These secrets can be configured in the Github repo to connect to 
        # your InfluxDB instance.
        INFLUX_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.INFLUX_TOKEN }}
        INFLUX_ORG: ${{ secrets.INFLUX_ORG }}
        INFLUX_URL: ${{ secrets.INFLUX_URL }}
        GITHUB_REPO: ${{ github.repository }}
        GITHUB_BRANCH: ${{ github.ref }}  
      run: |
        cd /tmp
        wget https://dl.influxdata.com/platform/nightlies/influx_nightly_linux_amd64.tar.gz
        tar xvfz influx_nightly_linux_amd64.tar.gz
        sudo cp influx_nightly_linux_amd64/influx /usr/local/bin/
        cd $GITHUB_WORKSPACE
        # This runs the script to set up your stacks
        chmod +x ./setup.sh
        ./setup.sh prod
```

> Check out the complete [Github Actions documentation](https://github.com/features/actions) for more information about using these in your project.

Author: For more info..., check out [Github Actions documentation](https://github.com/features/actions).
